
###Predicting passenger patterns on the T

Using data from the MBTA’s fare collection system, you will develop predictive models of ridership patterns based on past travel. This will include both internal patterns and the influence of external events (i.e. events at the Garden or Fenway.). 

###Classifying everything on the sky

Using the Pan Stars data we want to 
Create a training set for all kind of objects known to astronomers. For this to happen we need to use known objects for other surveys and transfer learning. Transfer learning is when a training set is not available as such but machine learning methods have to be used to make one. We then want to create a probabilistic classification model that classifies everything and evaluate its accuracy. A possible extension would be to evaluate when follow-ups may be done.



###Social Media Epidemiology

Traditional clinical methods to track the incidence of diseases are essential to prevent outbreaks, they frequently take weeks to spot critical epidemiological events. Analysis of social media has given rise to multiple digital disease surveillance systems capable of providing timely epidemiological information to public health decision makers (two to three weeks) ahead of traditional reports.

Challenges in the design and implementation of these digital disease tracking systems include finding, downloading, storing, analyzing, and visualizing enormous amounts of information continuously in time. 

###Assessing brain development for prematurely born babies.

Assessing brain development for prematurely born babies.We have currently completed a prototype of a structural MRI processing pipeline that annotates various brain areas in acquistions of infants.
The student would need to familiarize her-/himself with the tools, process a set of data from a prematurely born population and then modify and evaluate the accuracy of the pipeline. When completed, findings from this study would be compared to those from a population of full-terms. The student would be supervised one or two mentors experienced in MRI post-processing and image registration. Familiarity with C/C++, Matlab and basic scripting is a requirement.

###Detecting Topics and Understanding Citations

Nearly every Physics, Astronomy, and Geophysics article refereed in the past 20 years is fully indexed and served by the ADS. 50,000 scientists and librarians use the ADS daily. The ADS’s bibliographic dataset currently consists of over ten million documents, and is growing at a rate of several thousand per month. There are multiple projects of interest, including:

* Detect topics from a paper using NLP techniques for entity recognition (could be an ontology, thesaurus, or just controlled dictionary).  
* Improve ADS’s reference resolving framework using state of the art techniques such as Conditional Random Fields (CRF).
* Extract the context in which a citation is provided in a paper and characterize its use. The references in the text would then be coupled with the nearby (according to some proximity measure) subject matter tags to form an external view of the subject matter in the reference. 

###Exposing Dodgy Erotic massage parlors

Polaris, an anti-human-trafficking organization, is interested in exploring how computational science can assist in identifying locations, businesses, and individuals participating in human trafficking operations. Anecdotal evidence from the National Human Trafficking Resource Center hotline and from human trafficking survivors indicates that the industry is highly networked and that women in the industry are often coerced.

You will focus specifically on the Erotic Massage parlor business. Since the erotic massage parlors operate as seemingly legitimate businesses, there is a significant amount of data and information about them on the web. Through computational methods, Polaris hopes to 
identify establishments with a high probability of involvement in trafficking activities, find links between them and 
identify the most influential individuals / businesses in the industry


###Conceptual Physics from Machine Learning

We will apply powerful machine learning to gain conceptual understanding in physics. For example, we have used kernel SVMs and feed-forward neural networks to define the concept of a defect in disordered systems, which could not be done before. We are also working on using neural networks, with similar topology to recurrent networks in natural language processing, to find a good representation for atomic configurations in quantum mechanical calculations. 

###Market Beta

The broad problem is how to best estimate, given information available today, a stock's "market beta", the relationship between the price of a stock and a market index in the future. It describes what percentage move in the stock we should expect given a one unit move up or down in the index. 
 
The simplest solution to the problem is to regress the prices or returns of a stock on the index return or price.  However, below are some considerations that merit further research to refine the estimate, such as optimal backward-looking timescales for a week-forward prediction, corrections for thinly traded stocks, newly traded stocks (such as those from IPOs), significant company news, and changes in the macro environment. Does the stock shrink to the index, rendering a beta of 1?

###Mortgage prepayment and Bitcoin

Value of mortgage prepayment option (Cheng Su):
1.            Estimate empirically for a period of time (say the past 10 years) how much homeowners paid for the option cost in mortgages and how much they saved when prepay. (For this one I believe homeowners are better off because rate has been dropping for the past 10 years)
2.            Compare the current option cost being charged vs the historical mean.
3.            Calculate how much more rate needs to drop for homeowners to break even given the option cost they are paying now.
 
Bitcoin (Alfred Yuan):
Bitcoin (BTC), as you may hear about, is a digital currency. Unlike traditional currency whose credit is backed by government’s privilege of taxing, BTC is backed by a cryptology math algorithm. This nature makes BTC born in debate. Supporters claim this peer-to-peer (P2P) mode saves people from inflation hazard of traditional currencies; meanwhile, others argue once this algorithm is cracked by any party, BTC will become of 0 value.
However, after several years, BTC gradually became accepted by lots of mainstream stores / websites / companies as an alternative payment method. Born in digital era, BTC’s data are all available online easy to access. The project may include analysis in the following directions:
1.            Relationship between BTC and other global macro assets (including G10 currencies, Libor rates, oild prices and etc.)
2.            Possible arbitrage trading opportunities across different BTC exchanges
3.            The demand / supply (mining) of BTC market and how it affects the BTC price
4.            What’s the relationship between BTC and other digital currencies, such as LTC and etc.

###Long-Short equity trading strategies.

In this project students will be instructed to try to build an industrial strength Long-Short equity trading strategy using public domain data sources. Students will learn about the importance of factor selection, transaction cost, liquidity, proper usage of optimizer, and natural capacity constraints on strategies. They will learn about proper method of backtesting. If time permits, they could experiment with methods of improving the performance of various factors and solve real problems in real world trading. Students will also learn about the importance of computer science in financial industry.

###Deep Learning and the Brain Connectome.

Deep learning methods for Connectomics: segmentation of individual neurons and their synapses is currently done using convolutional neural nets. Our goal is to explore other deep learning architectures to speed up the prediction without a significant loss in performance.

Higher level assembly of neuronal structures from error prone pre-segmentations based on biological models: Currently our automatic reconstructions need manual proofreading to correct for split and merge errors in the 3D geometry of the neurons. Goal is to build on top of the automatic reconstructions and correct split errors by looking at 3D segments and merging them into biological plausible neurons. A first idea to explore is to use deep learning to predict if segments should be merged, and then use biological constraints to identify biologically plausible groupings based on the deep learning results.

Synapse detection for Connectomics: While state of the art methods for synapse detection using computer vision approaches use random forests and boosting on hand designed features to classify each pixel in the images, we want to explore deep learning methods for this purpose. 

The data is already acquired and we have sufficient manual annotations for deep learning.

###Understanding subscription cues at the Boston Globe

The typical cyber-life of a  BostonGlobe user starts with anonymous visits- from casually visiting the site, to ultimately becoming a subscriber. The BostonGlobe would like to understand the idiosyncrasies and patterns of a subscriber and use that knowledge to increase subscriptions.  
The goal of this project is to develop predictive models for the subscription process using web transaction data from the BostonGlobe.com and Boston.com. The data includes pages visited, click-throughs, time of visits, frequency of visits and other contextual information of these users as they pass through the sales conversion funnel.
The final product will be a model and a post-mortem probabilistic characterization of the types of uses: the result will be a measure of the probability of becoming a subscriber at a given time. 
